gh-123523: Rework typing documentation for generators and coroutines, and link to it from `collections.abc` docs (#123544)
python/cpython: Doc/library/typing.rst

``type[Any]`` is equivalent to :class:`type`, which is the root of Python's
:ref:`metaclass hierarchy <metaclasses>`.

.. _annotating-generators-and-coroutines:

Annotating generators and coroutines
====================================

> A generator can be annotated by the generic type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A generator can be annotated using the generic type
```

:class:`Generator[YieldType, SendType, ReturnType] <collections.abc.Generator>`.
For example::

   def echo_round() -> Generator[int, float, str]:
       sent = yield 0
       while sent >= 0:
           sent = yield round(sent)
       return 'Done'

Note that unlike many other generics in the typing module, the ``SendType``
of :class:`~collections.abc.Generator` behaves contravariantly, not covariantly or
invariantly.

The ``SendType`` and ``ReturnType`` parameters default to :const:`!None`::

   def infinite_stream(start: int) -> Generator[int]:
       while True:
           yield start
           start += 1

It is also possible to set these types explicitly::

   def infinite_stream(start: int) -> Generator[int, None, None]:
       while True:
           yield start
           start += 1

> Alternatively, annotate your generator as having a return type of
> either :class:`Iterable[YieldType] <collections.abc.Iterable>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simple generators that only ever yield values can also be annotated
as having a return type of either
:class:`Iterable[YieldType] <collections.abc.Iterable>`
```

or :class:`Iterator[YieldType] <collections.abc.Iterator>`::

   def infinite_stream(start: int) -> Iterator[int]:
       while True:
           yield start
           start += 1

Async generators are handled in a similar fashion, but don't
expect a ``ReturnType`` type argument
(:class:`AsyncGenerator[YieldType, SendType] <collections.abc.AsyncGenerator>`).
The ``SendType`` argument defaults to :const:`!None`, so the following definitions
are equivalent::

   async def infinite_stream(start: int) -> AsyncGenerator[int]:
       while True:
           yield start
           start = await increment(start)

   async def infinite_stream(start: int) -> AsyncGenerator[int, None]:
       while True:
           yield start
           start = await increment(start)

> As in synchronous case,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As in the synchronous case,
```

``type[Any]`` is equivalent to :class:`type`, which is the root of Python's
:ref:`metaclass hierarchy <metaclasses>`.

.. _annotating-generators-and-coroutines:

Annotating generators and coroutines
====================================

A generator can be annotated using the generic type
:class:`Generator[YieldType, SendType, ReturnType] <collections.abc.Generator>`.
For example::

   def echo_round() -> Generator[int, float, str]:
       sent = yield 0
       while sent >= 0:
           sent = yield round(sent)
       return 'Done'

> Note that unlike many other generics in the typing module, the ``SendType``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that unlike many other generic classes in the standard library, the ``SendType``
```

>    to use an abstract collection type such as :class:`Mapping`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   to use an abstract collection type such as :class:`~collections.abc.Mapping`
```

   to use an abstract collection type such as :class:`Sequence` or

>    :class:`Iterable` rather than to use :class:`list` or :class:`!typing.List`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   to use an abstract collection type such as :class:`~collections.abc.Sequence`
   or :class:`~collections.abc.Iterable` rather than to use :class:`list` or
   :class:`!typing.List`.
```

Author: That's a great suggestion, thanks! Also updated `AbstractSet` in the next block in the same way.

   Deprecated alias to :class:`builtins.set <set>`.

   Note that to annotate arguments, it is preferred

>    to use an abstract collection type such as :class:`~collections.abc.Set`

Reviewer: It might be worth giving the fully qualified name for this one, as it's quite confusing that it has the same name as `typing.Set` (the entry for which we're in right now), but represents a very different type (an abstract set, equivalent to `typing.AbstractSet` rather than `typing.Set` or `builtins.set`)

```suggestion
   to use an abstract collection type such as :class:`collections.abc.Set`
```

>    rather than to use :class:`set` or :class:`!typing.Set`.

Reviewer: (same reason for giving `collections.abc.Set` a fully qualified name)

```suggestion
   rather than to use :class:`set` or :class:`typing.Set`.
```

   Deprecated alias to :class:`collections.abc.Coroutine`.

>    See :ref:`annotating-generators-and-coroutines`

Reviewer 2: So, do we use `See [...]` in `typing.rst` and `Refer to [...]` in `collections.abc`?

   Deprecated alias to :class:`collections.abc.Coroutine`.

   See
   :ref:`annotating generators and coroutines <annotating-generators-and-coroutines>`

>    for details of using :class:`collections.abc.Coroutine` and this class
>    in type annotations.

Reviewer: `typing.Coroutine` isn't actually a class; it's an alias. I think I'd go fo this:

```suggestion
   for details on using :class:`collections.abc.Coroutine` and
   ``typing.Coroutine`` in type annotations.
```

   Deprecated alias to :class:`collections.abc.AsyncGenerator`.

   See
   :ref:`annotating generators and coroutines <annotating-generators-and-coroutines>`

>    for details of using :class:`collections.abc.AsyncGenerator` and this class
>    in type annotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   for details on using :class:`collections.abc.AsyncGenerator` and
   ``typing.AsyncGenerator`` in type annotations.
```

   Deprecated alias to :class:`collections.abc.Callable`.

   See :ref:`annotating-callables` for details on how to use

>    :class:`collections.abc.Callable` and ``typing.Callable`` in type annotations.

Reviewer: Why take this note out? I'd keep it here, and add similar one-sentence links to the new "Annotating generators and coroutines" section from the stub entries for `typing.Generator`, `typing.Coroutine`, etc.

The stub entries for the deprecated objects shouldn't be where the "how to use these type hints" sections are located. But we should make it easy for people who end up at the stub entries to get to the information they wanted to know

   Deprecated alias to :class:`collections.abc.Generator`.

   See
   :ref:`annotating generators and coroutines <annotating-generators-and-coroutines>`

>    for details of using :class:`collections.abc.Generator` and this class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   for details on using :class:`collections.abc.Generator` and ``typing.Generator``
```
